README.md, before:

# better_deferred
This is a depedency-free lightweight library that completely defers the download and evaluation of external Javascript post document.ready (plus a small delay) resulting in improved performance compared to using native defer or async. Native async / defer don't prevent the browser from downloading and evaluating external scripts prior to firing off document.ready which degrades performance and lighthouse scores.

The small delay is set to 5000 ms by default but it's customizable. This delay will allow you to get reduce time-to-interactive delays and will bring you closer to getting a high Lighthouse Performance score.

Please note that not all scripts are a good candidate to defer. For example, jQuery and Bootstrap are common libraries expected to be loaded as soon as possible in a page request.

**Examples**

The following scripts is executed after (document.ready + 5 seconds):
```
<script type="better_deferred" onload="console.log('loaded inline script');">
   alert('loaded');
</script>
```

```
<script type="better_deferred" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.6.0/jquery.min.js" onload="console.log('loaded external script');></script>
```

External scripts are loaded first (in the order they appear), then inline scripts follow (in the order they appear).

# Triggering early load of better_deferred scripts
Any html element with the class better_deferred_trigger will be given a listener for mouse over, touch move, and focus; which will trigger the early load of better_deferred scripts once.

Additionally, to early trigger manually you can call `window[window['_bd_name']].start()`.

# Loaded scripts
When scripts are loaded, they are given the type `better_deferred_*_loaded` and the bottom of the document will include a reciprocating script of type `text/javascript`.

# Support for lozad
A case I wanted to support is to load external scripts earlier if they become relevant to the user by detecting whether lozad has loaded related elements in the page.

For example, if an element to declare Calendly isn't visible yet, then I'd like to lazy load the Calendly script except if the element becomes visible and the user is likely to interact with it. So this library sets Mutation observers for `better_deferred` scripts when the parent has the `lozad` class. Upon lozad making the element visible, this library detects changes to `data-loaded` and will immediate start loading all deferred scripts.

## Mime Types

This library support addition of custom MIME types when the script is loaded. This defaults to `type="application/javascript"` this can be overridden by setting `data-mime-type` value. For example for ESM, the `type="module"` needs to be set, since this is deferred, this can be set as `data-mime-type="module` or any of the [JS IANA types](http://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml).

```
<script type="better_deferred" data-mime-type="module">
   import * as d3 from 'https://esm.run/d3';
   console.log('esm module', d3);
</script>
```

## Customization
By default inline scripts and external scripts will be
```
window['_bd_timeout'] = 5000;
```

To prevent name collision, this library is instantiated in
`window[window['_bd_name']]`. This means that you can use the following pattern to set where this object is stored.

```
window['_bd_name'] = '_new_name_to_prevent_collisions'
```

## Development
```
npm run watch
```
## Build
```
npm run build
```

## Publish
```
npm publish
```

# Creating Repo
Inspiration from:
- https://www.cybergrx.com/resources/research-and-insights/blog/how-to-create-a-barebones-production-ready-npm-package-with-babel-7
- https://docs.npmjs.com/

Commit message:

Fixing bug in Firefox and adding tests - V2.0.1 tests (#8)

README.md, after:

# better_deferred
This is a depedency-free lightweight library that completely defers the download and evaluation of external Javascript post document.ready (plus a small delay) resulting in improved performance compared to using native defer or async. Native async / defer don't prevent the browser from downloading and evaluating external scripts prior to firing off document.ready which degrades performance and lighthouse scores.

The small delay is set to 5000 ms by default but it's customizable. This delay will allow you to get reduce time-to-interactive delays and will bring you closer to getting a high Lighthouse Performance score.

Please note that not all scripts are a good candidate to defer. For example, jQuery and Bootstrap are common libraries expected to be loaded as soon as possible in a page request.

**Examples**

The following scripts is executed after (document.ready + 5 seconds):
```
<script type="better_deferred" onload="console.log('loaded inline script');">
   alert('loaded');
</script>
```

```
<script type="better_deferred" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.6.0/jquery.min.js" onload="console.log('loaded external script');></script>
```

External scripts are loaded first (in the order they appear), then inline scripts follow (in the order they appear).

# Triggering early load of better_deferred scripts
Any html element with the class better_deferred_trigger will be given a listener for mouse over, touch move, and focus; which will trigger the early load of better_deferred scripts once.

Additionally, to early trigger manually you can call `window[window['_bd_name']].start()`.

# Loaded scripts
When scripts are loaded, they are given the type `loaded_better_deferred` and the bottom of the document will include a reciprocating script of type `text/javascript`.

# Support for lozad
A case I wanted to support is to load external scripts earlier if they become relevant to the user by detecting whether lozad has loaded related elements in the page.

For example, if an element to declare Calendly isn't visible yet, then I'd like to lazy load the Calendly script except if the element becomes visible and the user is likely to interact with it. So this library sets Mutation observers for `better_deferred` scripts when the parent has the `lozad` class. Upon lozad making the element visible, this library detects changes to `data-loaded` and will immediate start loading all deferred scripts.

## Mime Types

This library support addition of custom MIME types when the script is loaded. This defaults to `type="application/javascript"` this can be overridden by setting `data-mime-type` value. For example for ESM, the `type="module"` needs to be set, since this is deferred, this can be set as `data-mime-type="module` or any of the [JS IANA types](http://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml).

```
<script type="better_deferred" data-mime-type="module">
   import * as d3 from 'https://esm.run/d3';
   console.log('esm module', d3);
</script>
```

## Customization
By default inline scripts and external scripts will be
```
window['_bd_timeout'] = 5000;
```

To prevent name collision, this library is instantiated in
`window[window['_bd_name']]`. This means that you can use the following pattern to set where this object is stored.

```
window['_bd_name'] = '_new_name_to_prevent_collisions'
```

## Development
```
npm run watch
```
## Build
```
npm run build
```

## Publish
```
npm publish
```

# Creating Repo
Inspiration from:
- https://www.cybergrx.com/resources/research-and-insights/blog/how-to-create-a-barebones-production-ready-npm-package-with-babel-7
- https://docs.npmjs.com/

# Run tests locally
Be sure to install all dependencies, then run tests:
```
npx playwright install --with-deps
npm run test
```

# CI
Currently this repo uses Github actions but you can run the tests locally using a Docker container:
```
docker run --rm -it $(docker build -q .)
```
